packages/gcp/docs/audit.md, before:

# Audit

## Logs

The `audit` dataset collects audit logs of administrative activities and accesses within your Google Cloud resources.

**ECS Field Reference**

Please refer to the following [document](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html) for detailed information on ECS fields.

**Exported fields**

| Field | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|
| @timestamp | Event timestamp. | date |
| cloud.image.id | Image ID for the cloud instance. | keyword |
| data_stream.dataset | Data stream dataset. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.namespace | Data stream namespace. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.type | Data stream type. | constant_keyword |
| event.dataset | Event dataset | constant_keyword |
| event.module | Event module | constant_keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.authority_selector | The authority selector specified by the requestor, if any. It is not guaranteed  that the principal was allowed to use this authority. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.principal_email | The email address of the authenticated user making the request. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.principal_subject | String representation of identity of requesting party. Populated for both first and third party identities. Only present for APIs that support third-party identities. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.service_account_delegation_info | Identity delegation history of an authenticated service account that makes the request. It contains information on the real authorities that try to access GCP resources by delegating on a service account. When multiple authorities present, they are guaranteed to be sorted based on the original ordering of the identity delegation events. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.service_account_key_name | The service account key that was used to request the OAuth 2.0 access token. This field identifies the service account key by its full resource name. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.third_party_principal | The third party identification (if any) of the authenticated user making the request. When the JSON object represented here has a proto equivalent, the proto name will be indicated in the @type property. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.granted | Whether or not authorization for resource and permission was granted. | boolean |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.permission | The required IAM permission. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource | The resource being accessed, as a REST-style string. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource_attributes.name | The name of the resource. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource_attributes.service | The name of the service. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource_attributes.type | The type of the resource. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.flattened | Contains the full audit document as sent by GCP. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.labels | A map of key, value pairs that provides additional information about the log entry. The labels can be user-defined or system-defined. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.first | Optional. Set this to True if this is the first log entry in the operation. | boolean |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.id | Optional. An arbitrary operation identifier. Log entries with the same identifier are assumed to be part of the same operation. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.last | Optional. Set this to True if this is the last log entry in the operation. | boolean |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.producer | Optional. An arbitrary producer identifier. The combination of id and producer must be globally unique. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.method_name | The name of the service method or operation. For API calls, this  should be the name of the API method.  For example, 'google.datastore.v1.Datastore.RunQuery'. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.num_response_items | The number of items returned from a List or Query API method, if applicable. | long |
| gcp.audit.request |  | flattened |
| gcp.audit.request_metadata.caller_ip | The IP address of the caller. | ip |
| gcp.audit.request_metadata.caller_supplied_user_agent | The user agent of the caller. This information is not authenticated and  should be treated accordingly. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.request_metadata.raw.caller_ip | The raw IP address of the caller. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.resource_location.current_locations | Current locations of the resource. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.resource_name | The resource or collection that is the target of the operation.  The name is a scheme-less URI, not including the API service name.  For example, 'shelves/SHELF_ID/books'. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.response |  | flattened |
| gcp.audit.service_name | The name of the API service performing the operation.  For example, datastore.googleapis.com. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.status.code | The status code, which should be an enum value of google.rpc.Code. | integer |
| gcp.audit.status.message | A developer-facing error message, which should be in English. Any user-facing  error message should be localized and sent in the google.rpc.Status.details  field, or localized by the client. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.type | Type property. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.instance.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.instance.region | Region of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.instance.zone | Zone of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.vpc.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.vpc.subnetwork_name | Subnetwork on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.vpc.vpc_name | VPC on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| gcp.source.instance.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.instance.region | Region of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.instance.zone | Zone of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.vpc.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.vpc.subnetwork_name | Subnetwork on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| gcp.source.vpc.vpc_name | VPC on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| host.containerized | If the host is a container. | boolean |
| host.os.build | OS build information. | keyword |
| host.os.codename | OS codename, if any. | keyword |
| input.type | Input type | keyword |
| log.offset | Log offset | long |


An example event for `audit` looks as following:

```json
{
    "@timestamp": "2019-12-19T00:44:25.051Z",
    "agent": {
        "ephemeral_id": "a22278bb-5e1f-4ab7-b468-277c8c0b80a9",
        "id": "c6b95057-2f5d-4b8f-b4b5-37cbdb995dec",
        "name": "docker-fleet-agent",
        "type": "filebeat",
        "version": "8.7.1"
    },
    "client": {
        "user": {
            "email": "xxx@xxx.xxx"
        }
    },
    "cloud": {
        "project": {
            "id": "elastic-beats"
        },
        "provider": "gcp"
    },
    "data_stream": {
        "dataset": "gcp.audit",
        "namespace": "ep",
        "type": "logs"
    },
    "ecs": {
        "version": "8.11.0"
    },
    "elastic_agent": {
        "id": "c6b95057-2f5d-4b8f-b4b5-37cbdb995dec",
        "snapshot": false,
        "version": "8.7.1"
    },
    "event": {
        "action": "beta.compute.instances.aggregatedList",
        "agent_id_status": "verified",
        "category": [
            "network",
            "configuration"
        ],
        "created": "2023-10-25T04:18:46.637Z",
        "dataset": "gcp.audit",
        "id": "yonau2dg2zi",
        "ingested": "2023-10-25T04:18:47Z",
        "kind": "event",
        "outcome": "success",
        "provider": "data_access",
        "type": [
            "access",
            "allowed"
        ]
    },
    "gcp": {
        "audit": {
            "authorization_info": [
                {
                    "granted": true,
                    "permission": "compute.instances.list",
                    "resource_attributes": {
                        "name": "projects/elastic-beats",
                        "service": "resourcemanager",
                        "type": "resourcemanager.projects"
                    }
                }
            ],
            "num_response_items": 61,
            "request": {
                "@type": "type.googleapis.com/compute.instances.aggregatedList"
            },
            "resource_location": {
                "current_locations": [
                    "global"
                ]
            },
            "resource_name": "projects/elastic-beats/global/instances",
            "response": {
                "@type": "core.k8s.io/v1.Status",
                "apiVersion": "v1",
                "details": {
                    "group": "batch",
                    "kind": "jobs",
                    "name": "gsuite-exporter-1589294700",
                    "uid": "2beff34a-945f-11ea-bacf-42010a80007f"
                },
                "kind": "Status",
                "status_value": "Success"
            },
            "type": "type.googleapis.com/google.cloud.audit.AuditLog"
        }
    },
    "input": {
        "type": "gcp-pubsub"
    },
    "log": {
        "level": "INFO",
        "logger": "projects/elastic-beats/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access"
    },
    "service": {
        "name": "compute.googleapis.com"
    },
    "source": {
        "ip": "192.168.1.1"
    },
    "tags": [
        "forwarded",
        "gcp-audit"
    ],
    "user_agent": {
        "device": {
            "name": "Mac"
        },
        "name": "Firefox",
        "original": "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:71.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/71.0,gzip(gfe),gzip(gfe)",
        "os": {
            "full": "Mac OS X 10.15",
            "name": "Mac OS X",
            "version": "10.15"
        },
        "version": "71.0."
    }
}
```

Commit message:

add policy_violation_info fields to gcp audit logs

packages/gcp/docs/audit.md, after:

# Audit

## Logs

The `audit` dataset collects audit logs of administrative activities and accesses within your Google Cloud resources.

**ECS Field Reference**

Please refer to the following [document](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html) for detailed information on ECS fields.

**Exported fields**

| Field | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|
| @timestamp | Event timestamp. | date |
| cloud.image.id | Image ID for the cloud instance. | keyword |
| data_stream.dataset | Data stream dataset. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.namespace | Data stream namespace. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.type | Data stream type. | constant_keyword |
| event.dataset | Event dataset | constant_keyword |
| event.module | Event module | constant_keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.authority_selector | The authority selector specified by the requestor, if any. It is not guaranteed  that the principal was allowed to use this authority. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.principal_email | The email address of the authenticated user making the request. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.principal_subject | String representation of identity of requesting party. Populated for both first and third party identities. Only present for APIs that support third-party identities. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.service_account_delegation_info | Identity delegation history of an authenticated service account that makes the request. It contains information on the real authorities that try to access GCP resources by delegating on a service account. When multiple authorities present, they are guaranteed to be sorted based on the original ordering of the identity delegation events. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.service_account_key_name | The service account key that was used to request the OAuth 2.0 access token. This field identifies the service account key by its full resource name. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authentication_info.third_party_principal | The third party identification (if any) of the authenticated user making the request. When the JSON object represented here has a proto equivalent, the proto name will be indicated in the @type property. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.granted | Whether or not authorization for resource and permission was granted. | boolean |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.permission | The required IAM permission. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource | The resource being accessed, as a REST-style string. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource_attributes.name | The name of the resource. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource_attributes.service | The name of the service. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.authorization_info.resource_attributes.type | The type of the resource. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.flattened | Contains the full audit document as sent by GCP. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.labels | A map of key, value pairs that provides additional information about the log entry. The labels can be user-defined or system-defined. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.first | Optional. Set this to True if this is the first log entry in the operation. | boolean |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.id | Optional. An arbitrary operation identifier. Log entries with the same identifier are assumed to be part of the same operation. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.last | Optional. Set this to True if this is the last log entry in the operation. | boolean |
| gcp.audit.logentry_operation.producer | Optional. An arbitrary producer identifier. The combination of id and producer must be globally unique. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.metadata | Service-specific data about the request, response, and other information associated with the current audited event. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.method_name | The name of the service method or operation. For API calls, this  should be the name of the API method.  For example, 'google.datastore.v1.Datastore.RunQuery'. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.num_response_items | The number of items returned from a List or Query API method, if applicable. | long |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.payload | Resource payload that is currently in scope and is subjected to orgpolicy conditions. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.resource_tags | Tags referenced on the resource at the time of evaluation. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.resource_type | Resource type that the orgpolicy is checked against. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.violations.checkedValue | Value that is being checked for the policy. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.violations.constraint | Constraint name. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.violations.errorMessage | Error message that policy is indicating. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.policy_violation_info.violations.policyType | Indicates the type of the policy. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.request |  | flattened |
| gcp.audit.request_metadata.caller_ip | The IP address of the caller. | ip |
| gcp.audit.request_metadata.caller_supplied_user_agent | The user agent of the caller. This information is not authenticated and  should be treated accordingly. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.request_metadata.raw.caller_ip | The raw IP address of the caller. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.resource_location.current_locations | Current locations of the resource. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.resource_name | The resource or collection that is the target of the operation.  The name is a scheme-less URI, not including the API service name.  For example, 'shelves/SHELF_ID/books'. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.response |  | flattened |
| gcp.audit.service_name | The name of the API service performing the operation.  For example, datastore.googleapis.com. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.status.code | The status code, which should be an enum value of google.rpc.Code. | integer |
| gcp.audit.status.details | A list of messages that carry the error details. | flattened |
| gcp.audit.status.message | A developer-facing error message, which should be in English. Any user-facing  error message should be localized and sent in the google.rpc.Status.details  field, or localized by the client. | keyword |
| gcp.audit.type | Type property. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.instance.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.instance.region | Region of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.instance.zone | Zone of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.vpc.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.vpc.subnetwork_name | Subnetwork on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| gcp.destination.vpc.vpc_name | VPC on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| gcp.source.instance.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.instance.region | Region of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.instance.zone | Zone of the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.vpc.project_id | ID of the project containing the VM. | keyword |
| gcp.source.vpc.subnetwork_name | Subnetwork on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| gcp.source.vpc.vpc_name | VPC on which the VM is operating. | keyword |
| host.containerized | If the host is a container. | boolean |
| host.os.build | OS build information. | keyword |
| host.os.codename | OS codename, if any. | keyword |
| input.type | Input type | keyword |
| log.offset | Log offset | long |


An example event for `audit` looks as following:

```json
{
    "@timestamp": "2019-12-19T00:44:25.051Z",
    "agent": {
        "ephemeral_id": "a22278bb-5e1f-4ab7-b468-277c8c0b80a9",
        "id": "c6b95057-2f5d-4b8f-b4b5-37cbdb995dec",
        "name": "docker-fleet-agent",
        "type": "filebeat",
        "version": "8.7.1"
    },
    "client": {
        "user": {
            "email": "xxx@xxx.xxx"
        }
    },
    "cloud": {
        "project": {
            "id": "elastic-beats"
        },
        "provider": "gcp"
    },
    "data_stream": {
        "dataset": "gcp.audit",
        "namespace": "ep",
        "type": "logs"
    },
    "ecs": {
        "version": "8.11.0"
    },
    "elastic_agent": {
        "id": "c6b95057-2f5d-4b8f-b4b5-37cbdb995dec",
        "snapshot": false,
        "version": "8.7.1"
    },
    "event": {
        "action": "beta.compute.instances.aggregatedList",
        "agent_id_status": "verified",
        "category": [
            "network",
            "configuration"
        ],
        "created": "2023-10-25T04:18:46.637Z",
        "dataset": "gcp.audit",
        "id": "yonau2dg2zi",
        "ingested": "2023-10-25T04:18:47Z",
        "kind": "event",
        "outcome": "success",
        "provider": "data_access",
        "type": [
            "access",
            "allowed"
        ]
    },
    "gcp": {
        "audit": {
            "authorization_info": [
                {
                    "granted": true,
                    "permission": "compute.instances.list",
                    "resource_attributes": {
                        "name": "projects/elastic-beats",
                        "service": "resourcemanager",
                        "type": "resourcemanager.projects"
                    }
                }
            ],
            "num_response_items": 61,
            "request": {
                "@type": "type.googleapis.com/compute.instances.aggregatedList"
            },
            "resource_location": {
                "current_locations": [
                    "global"
                ]
            },
            "resource_name": "projects/elastic-beats/global/instances",
            "response": {
                "@type": "core.k8s.io/v1.Status",
                "apiVersion": "v1",
                "details": {
                    "group": "batch",
                    "kind": "jobs",
                    "name": "gsuite-exporter-1589294700",
                    "uid": "2beff34a-945f-11ea-bacf-42010a80007f"
                },
                "kind": "Status",
                "status_value": "Success"
            },
            "type": "type.googleapis.com/google.cloud.audit.AuditLog"
        }
    },
    "input": {
        "type": "gcp-pubsub"
    },
    "log": {
        "level": "INFO",
        "logger": "projects/elastic-beats/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access"
    },
    "service": {
        "name": "compute.googleapis.com"
    },
    "source": {
        "ip": "192.168.1.1"
    },
    "tags": [
        "forwarded",
        "gcp-audit"
    ],
    "user_agent": {
        "device": {
            "name": "Mac"
        },
        "name": "Firefox",
        "original": "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:71.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/71.0,gzip(gfe),gzip(gfe)",
        "os": {
            "full": "Mac OS X 10.15",
            "name": "Mac OS X",
            "version": "10.15"
        },
        "version": "71.0."
    }
}
```
